>> Jason Lengstorf: So
when we create an MDX file,
and I'm gonna create this in our
theme dev in that docs folder, and
we're just gnna call it index because
I want a kind of a homepage, right?
So, the default way of writing
MDX is we can just say,
Hello and that's a page, right?
Like that could be a page on the Internet.
We wanna add a little more
information than that.
So I'm actually gonna start
with some front matter.
And the way that front matter
works in Markdown is we use these
triple dashes as a kind
of fenced code block.
And then we use YAML syntax to
say what our front matter is.
So we want a field called title
to show up on a front matter, and
this will be what the value of it is and
these are arbitrary.
You can set whatever you want in here and
most YAML syntax should work.
And then below our code block,
we can say something like, These are docs!
>> Jason Lengstorf: And on saving that,
we've got a completely valid MDX file
that we can use however we want.
So let's get this loaded into the site
using the theme so that we can show it.
So the first thing that we're
gonna do is we're going to
install some things in the theme.
So we'll go yarn workspace
gatsby-theme-docs,
and we will add
the gatsby-source-file-system.
And what Gatsby-source-file-system
does is it allows us to use
a folder in the project
itself as a data source.
So it'll put it in the GraphQL layer so
we can do stuff with it.
Then we're going to use
gatsby-plugin-mdx and
what Gatsby plugin MDX
will do is it'll look for
any files that are of the type dot MDX And
it will convert them into MDX nodes,
which means that we can get
at the content of that file.
And then gatsby-plugin-mdx
has some dependencies, so
we need to use the mdx-js/mdx package and
then we also need to use
the mdx-js/react package.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
we'll get those installed.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And now,
we can get those configured
in our gatsby-config for the theme.
So we're gonna create
a gatsby-config next to our
gatsby-node,
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
again, we're going to do module.exports.
Now the standard way that you would
write a config file is you would have
just an object, right?
But because we're in a theme, this becomes
a function that receives those options.
And because we're receiving options,
we wanna use our defaults.
So let's import that, we're gonna import
with defaults and require utility file.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And so up here
we're going to get the things we need.
So we're gonna use the contentPath cuz we
need to tell the file system where to look
and we're going to use external MDX
because we need to know whether or
not we should load the MDX
plugin inside the theme.
So we'll say withDefaults(options),
and then we can return our config object.
And in this case,
we're just gonna return some plugins.
The first one is always gonna be used and
that is resolve gatsby-source-file-system.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And the options
that we wanna send it first is name, and
I'm gonna use the plugin name.
And we'll talk more about why in a minute,
but the general idea
is that we wanna be able to identify
which files were loaded by this theme.
Because when we go to
create pages from it,
if another theme uses MDX, we wouldn't
want to create docs pages out of
some a blog themes, MDX files.
And we wanna grab those
from the contentPath.
So, this will give us the files
that we want in our file system.
And,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Let's
get the Markdown here.
So we'll go useExternalMDX.
So if useExternalMDX is set to true
we're just gonna skip this whole step.
So that's what we're checking here.
And so if it is false,
we're going to say resolve
gatsby-plugin-mdx and
for the options,
we will use defaultLayouts.
And we haven't defined this yet, but
we're gonna set up a default layout for
our MDX files.
And what this means is that when we load
an MDX file, Gatsby is going to look for
this wrapper component and
put the MDX files inside of it.
And that gives us a way
to control the output
without having to write a bunch of custom
code inside of the MDX files themselves.
And so we will put that at
source/components/layout.js.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
finally, once we get down here,
because there's a chance
that this is gonna be false,
we are going to filter our plugin array
because we wanna make sure that we
don't send back just a false value
that'll cause Gatsby to complain.
So we're gonna filter for Boolean so
that it drops any false values.
That's kind of a hacky
way to say like if it
exists
>> Jason Lengstorf: But I really like this
as a way of kind of keeping it terse
when you're doing that sort of thing.